# ThumbsUp
Designing an Optimal Cryo-Brace to Treat Texting Thumb

Programmed by Impana Chimmalagi in 2019 for the Synopsys Science & Engineering Fair.
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1we2Q4383B0abytmu56FsuqQsINM_1-t3JKBeKNESojg/edit?usp=share_link
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TSk5tIOCAf7__sjqUPJ-3KmvjF7PqoaeLNqvi3brLGc/edit?usp=share_link

In the United States, there are more than 200,000 people with De Quervain's Syndrome, more commonly known as Texting Thumb. This syndrome affects both the thumb and the wrist. The purpose and goal of this science fair project was to create an ergonomic, easy to wear brace that reduces the amount of tension a person’s thumb experiences while texting on a phone. This brace targeted two specific aspects of the RICE treatment method: Ice and Compression. A cryo-brace brace created with an inner-lining of compressive, soft foam and cooling aspect was hypothesized to reduce movement of the abductor pollicis brevis muscle in the thumb by the greatest amount. The main materials used for this brace were polyurethane suede, spandex, quilting foam, and velcro. The brace was tested through the means of an electromyography sensor fixated to the affected area. The sensor measured the number of muscle contractions the participant experienced while typing a set paragraph onto an iPhone 8 Plus. An Arduino unit board processed the data collected by the sensor and displayed it in a numerical list onto a computer. Results showed that overall, 75% of the participants wearing the cryo-brace had reduced contractions compared to the compression brace, and 60% of the participants wearing the cryo-brace had reduced contractions compared to wearing no brace. The cryo-brace caused a reduction in the number of contractions, compared to both the compression brace and the no brace control. Survey feedback also showed that 80% of all participants had rated the comfort level of the cryo-brace to be above 3 on a scale of 1-5 (1 being the lowest and 5 being the highest), and 75% of participants found the cryo-brace more or equally as comfortable as the compression brace. Analysis concluded that the reduced number of contractions would lead to reduced swelling, inflammation, spasms, and other symptoms of the Texting Thumb Syndrome, which numerous people around the world are faced with. Although the cryo-brace does not completely eliminate the effects of Texting Thumb, it is a progressive step for efficiently treating this syndrome that affects so many.
